#### For training a model and more description of the process, go through [Kaggle Notebook](https://www.kaggle.com/code/praneeth097/music-generation-using-lstm-networks)

## Generating a Playlist of Music using the LSTM model
The main file for generating music is the model_generate.py file. This file by default is set to generate beeth (beethoven) music using the model trained on that. Also it uses a seed from seed set (genxsets/beeth_gen.npy) as a start to generate a piece of music. So, if you want to generate music of different album. You would have to train a new model on that album using the kaggle notebook (preferably) to take advantage of gpu. After training, do download the trained model (both .json and .h5 files) and seed_set (.npy_file) to further use them to generate music without training again. Optionally, you can use the model_generate.py file by replacing the file paths of model and seed sets appropriately (clearly marked in the file).

Firstly, install the necessary libraries using the requirements.txt using pip -
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

To generate a playlist of music, you can use the following script:

```bash
python model_generate.py [num_songs] [note_count]
```
Replace [num_songs] with number of songs you want to generate (defaults to 2). <br>
Replace [note_count] with the number of notes or chords to generate in each song (defaults to 200). <br>

Example:
```bash
python model_generate.py 10 100
```
The above script generates 10 songs with 300 notes or chords in each.

Two examples of music generated by the model - 

<a href="https://github.com/Praneeth74/Music-Generation-using-LSTMs/blob/main/myMusic_0/0_beeth_generated_30_1000.midi" download>Download MIDI File 1</a>


